Task: A 3 tier environment is a common setup. Use a tool of your choosing/familiarity create these resources. Please remember we will not be judged on the outcome but more focusing on the approach, style and reproducibility.

Implementation Approach: on very high level,3 tier environments includes presentation, business logic and data storage layers. Since I am comfortable with Azure cloud and Azure DevOps(VSTS) as ALM tool I will be using the same for this implementation:

From front end application perspective, I have used Angluar as well as iOS XCODE. We can create a build pipeline to generate the artefact with executable files. Then we can create a web app through ARM templates with parameterized settings. Same template can be used to create n number of web apps in several environments with the help of configuration in parameter file. Release pipeline can be created to create the web app and then deploy the build artefact automatically.

For business logic, we can use Azure App service to host our API. To create Azure app service I will use ARM templates where I can parameterized the configuration so that same template can be used in several environments with specific configurations from the parameter file. This template file will take care of creating the App service in respective resource group of Azure. I will create a build pipeline to generate the artifacts which needs to deployed in the app service.

Then I will create a release pipeline to deploy the build artifact generated above in the app service. Once App service is created and deployed in Azure, we can use Azure App registrations to register the app in Azure and through API management we can expose it outer world. The release pipeline will automatically deploy the new changes generated from automated build pipeline.

For data storage we can create a SQL server and database through ARM template. Then we can commit the database structure in git repo and from there we can generate a .dacpac file. A release pipeline can deploy the latest .dacpac file automatically. A connection string can be passed in the App service to connect to the SQL database and get the relevant information.
